New PR for safe schema updates 2 (#531)
OctopusDeploy/blog: blog/2021-09/safe-schema-updates-2-resilience-vs-robustness/index.md

---
title: Safe Schema Updates - Resilient vs Robust IT Systems
description: Learn about the nature of failure in complex IT systems, and the benefits and drawbacks of designing for resilience vs robustness.
author: alex.yates@dlmconsultants.com
visibility: public
published: 2021-09-13-1400
metaImage: blogimage-resilientvsrobustsystems-2021.png
bannerImage: blogimage-resilientvsrobustsystems-2021.png
bannerImageAlt: nine level database server with fire on the top two levels
isFeatured: false
tags:
 - DevOps
 - Database Deployments
 - Deployment Patterns
 - Testing
---

> This post is part 2 of my Safe Schema Updates series. The other posts in this series are available at the following links:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This post is part 2 of my Safe Schema Updates series. We'll add links to the other posts in this series as they become available.
```

We should also be designing effective fire breaks. One bad database update should not be causing cascading failures. Failures need to be contained so that their impact is minimized. This means we need to be avoiding monolithic shared databases and we should be trying to split them up into smaller, simpler systems that are capable of running independently, even if they need to temporarily run in some degraded capacity. We’ll look more closely at that in the later posts about loose coupling and the Strangler Pattern.

The outcome of these changes should be significantly reduced risk associated with any database update. This reduced risk should reduce the need for overly bureaucratic change management processes, allowing the more frequent delivery of smaller, safer updates, reversing the downward spiral discussed in the last post, and leading to a period of continuous improvement.

## Next Time

> In the next post (part 3) we’ll talk about Continuous Integration (CI). Specifically, we’ll discuss how it’s been misunderstood and the harm that misunderstanding can cause, as well as the benefits of embracing “proper” CI for any IT system – including any relational database. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the next post (part 3) we’ll talk about Continuous Integration (CI). Specifically, we’ll discuss how it’s been misunderstood and the harm that misunderstanding can cause, as well as the benefits of embracing “proper” CI for any IT system – including any relational database. 

We'll add links to the other posts in this series as they become available.
```

---
title: Safe schema updates - Resilient vs robust IT systems
description: Learn about the nature of failure in complex IT systems, and the benefits and drawbacks of designing for resilience vs robustness.
author: alex.yates@dlmconsultants.com
visibility: public
published: 2021-09-13-1400
metaImage: blogimage-resilientvsrobustsystems-2021.png
bannerImage: blogimage-resilientvsrobustsystems-2021.png
bannerImageAlt: nine level database server with fire on the top two levels
isFeatured: false
tags:
 - DevOps
 - Database Deployments
 - Deployment Patterns
 - Testing
---

> This post is part 2 of my Safe Schema Updates series. We'll add links to the other posts in this series as they become available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This post is part 2 of my safe schema updates series. We'll add links to the other posts in this series as they become available.
```
